What is mlflow? (#8365)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/what-is-mlflow.rst

.. _what-is-mlflow:

What is MLflow?
===============

> MLflow is a versatile, expandable, open-source platform for managing machine learning workflows and artifacts across the machine learning lifecycle. It has predefined flavors for many popular ML libraries, but can be used with any library, algorithm, or deployment tool. It is designed to be extensible, so you can write plugins to support new workflows, libraries, and tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow is a versatile, expandable, open-source platform for managing machine learning workflows and artifacts across the machine learning lifecycle. It has built-in integrations with many popular ML libraries, but can be used with any library, algorithm, or deployment tool. It is designed to be extensible, so you can write plugins to support new workflows, libraries, and tools.
```

> .. figure:: _static/images/what-is-mlflow/mlflow-overview.png

Reviewer 2: Is it possible to use alt text? This needs it.

    :width: 100%

> MLflow is composed of five components:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MLflow has five components:
```

Reviewer 2: Composed of components sounds repetitive. Please simplify?

> MLflow is composed of five components:

Reviewer 2: The list here is essentially repeated under "What is MLflow used for?" Is it possible to combine the two sections?

Maybe a table with columns? | MLflow component | What it does |

> - `MLflow Tracking <https://www.mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html>`_: An API and UI for logging parameters, code versions, metrics, and output files when running your machine learning code and for later visualizing the results.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps changing the abstract term "output files" to the explicit components that are supported might be more helpful. "model artifacts and model environment dependencies" or something along those lines as a replacement. Might want to call out the ability to log arbitrary metadata as well.

Reviewer: +1 to @BenWilson2 's comment here

the "and for later visualizing the results" also reads slightly awkwardly, IMO.

> - `MLflow Projects <projects>`_: A standard format for packaging reusable data science code that can be run with different parameters to train models, visualize data, or perform any other data science task.

Reviewer: Can we make this the second to last item in the list? It's the second-to-least used by far

> - `MLflow Models <models>`_: A model packaging format and tools that let you easily deploy the same model (from any ML library) to batch or real-time scoring on platforms such as Docker, Apache Spark, Azure ML and AWS SageMaker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `MLflow Models <models>`_: A model packaging format and suite of tools that let you easily deploy a trained  model (from any ML library) for batch or real-time inference on platforms such as Docker, Apache Spark, Azure ML and AWS SageMaker.
```

Reviewer: I like @BenWilson2 's suggestion, but can we also mention Databricks as a deployment target?

> - `MLflow Registry <registry>`_: A centralized model store, set of APIs, and UI, to collaboratively manage the full lifecycle of MLflow Models.

Reviewer 3: The registry doesn't handle quite the entire lifecycle; it handles the lifecycle that starts after an acceptable training run and evaluation phase has been completed that meets the requirements of a particular DS working on said model solution. Approval, QA, and deployment are the main aspects of the lifecycle that the registry aims to address.

Author: "A centralized model store, set of APIs, and UI focused on the approval, quality assurance, and deployment of an MLflow Model." ?

Reviewer 3: That sounds great!

> - `MLflow Registry <registry>`_: A centralized model store, set of APIs, and UI, to collaboratively manage the full lifecycle of MLflow Models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MLflow Model Registry <registry>`_: A centralized model store, set of APIs, and UI, to collaboratively manage the full lifecycle of MLflow Models.
```

> - `MLflow Recipes <recipes>`_: Templates and an API for combining MLflow Tracking, Projects, and Models to create reusable workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MLflow Recipes <recipes>`_: Templates and an API for combining MLflow Tracking, Projects, Models, and the Model Registry to create reusable workflows.
```

What is MLflow used for?
------------------------

> MLflow is used to manage the machine learning lifecycle from initial model development through deployment. It combines:

Reviewer: MLflow will also help with monitoring, sunsetting models, etc.

```suggestion
MLflow is used to manage the machine learning lifecycle from initial model development through deployment and beyond. It combines:
```

> - Tracking experiments to record and compare parameters and results (MLflow Tracking)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Tracking experiments to record and compare parameters, evaluated metric results, and artifact management (MLflow Tracking)
```

> - Tracking experiments to record and compare parameters and results (MLflow Tracking)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tracking ML experiments to record and compare model parameters, performance metrics, source code, and more (MLflow Tracking)
```

Author: "Tracking ML experiments to record and compare model parameters, evaluate performance, and manage artifacts (MLflow Tracking)"?

- Packaging ML code in a reusable, reproducible form in order to share with other data scientists or transfer to production (MLflow Projects)

> - Managing and deploying models from a variety of ML libraries to a variety of model serving and inference platforms (MLflow Models)

Reviewer 3: The registry is more concerned with deploying with its focus of APIs and state transition management. Models is more of the platform / environment agnostic serialization and deserialization abstraction layer for arbitrary modeling solutions.

Reviewer: ^ I don't quite agree. The deployment tools are part of MLflow Models. I think @lobrien has this correct.

Reviewer: ^ I don't quite agree. The deployment tools are part of MLflow Models. I think @lobrien has this *mostly* correct. I'd make one edit:

```suggestion
- Packaging and deploying models from a variety of ML libraries to a variety of model serving and inference platforms (MLflow Models)
```

- Collaboratively managing a central model store, including model versioning, stage transitions, and annotations (MLflow Registry)

> - Creating and speeding iterative development with templates and reusable scripts (MLflow Recipes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accelerating iterative development with templates and reusable scripts for a variety of common modeling tasks (MLflow Recipes)
```

Who uses MLflow?
----------------

> MLflow is used by Data Scientists and Machine Learning Engineers as well as by MLOps and IT professionals. Data Scientists and Machine Learning Engineers use MLflow to track experiments, structure code, package models, and to review and select models for deployment. MLOps and IT professionals use MLflow to securely deploy models to production and to monitor deployments for performance and accuracy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MLflow is used by data scientists and machine learning engineers as well as by MLOps and IT professionals. Data scientists and machine learning engineers use MLflow to track experiments, structure code, package models, and to review and select models for deployment. MLOps and IT professionals use MLflow to securely deploy models to production and to monitor deployments for performance and accuracy. 
```

> MLflow is used by Data Scientists and Machine Learning Engineers as well as by MLOps and IT professionals. Data Scientists and Machine Learning Engineers use MLflow to track experiments, structure code, package models, and to review and select models for deployment. MLOps and IT professionals use MLflow to securely deploy models to production and to monitor deployments for performance and accuracy. 

Reviewer: I think there are only two personas that *use* MLflow: Data Scientists and MLOps Engineers. You can replace "MLOps and IT professionals" with "MLOps Engineers" and remove "Machine Learning Engineers."

IT professionals might set up / maintain an MLflow service for Data Scientists and Machine Learning Engineers to use, but they aren't users themselves

> MLflow use-cases

Reviewer: Nit: Is use case typically hyphenated? Never seen this before

----------------

MLflow is used for a variety of machine learning use-cases. Here are some examples:

> - A Data Scientist beginning work with a new project structures their code as an MLflow Project so that they can easily share it with others and run it with different parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Data Scientist who is beginning work to on a new project structures their code as an MLflow Project so that they can easily share it with others and run it with different parameters.
```

> - A team of Data Scientists use MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow Models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A team of Data Scientists uses MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow Models. 
```

Reviewer: Can we move projects down a couple entries in the list so that it isn't the first thing users see? It's not as well-used as Tracking & Models

> - A team of Data Scientists use MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow Models. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A team of data scientists use MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow Models. 
```

> - A Data Scientist beginning work with a new project structures their code as an MLflow Project so that they can easily share it with others and run it with different parameters.
> 
> - A team of Data Scientists use MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow Models. 
> 
> - An ML Engineer uses the MLflow UI to compare the performance of different models and selects the best one for deployment. They register the model in the MLflow Registry to track this specific version's performance in production. 
> 
> - An MLOps Engineer uses MLflow Models to deploy a model to a production environment. They use MLflow Registry to track the model's performance and to compare it to other models in production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A data scientist beginning work with a new project structures their code as an MLflow Project so that they can easily share it with others and run it with different parameters.

- A team of data scientists use MLflow Tracking to record parameters and metrics from their experiments on a single problem domain. They use the MLflow UI to compare results and guide their exploration of the solution space. They store the outputs of their runs as MLflow models. 

- An ML engineer uses the MLflow UI to compare the performance of different models and selects the best one for deployment. They register the model in the MLflow Registry to track this specific version's performance in production. 

- An MLOps engineer uses MLflow models to deploy a model to a production environment. They use MLflow Registry to track the model's performance and to compare it to other models in production.
```

Reviewer 2: Capitalizing feature names, but not roles or generic terms.

> - An MLOps Engineer uses MLflow Models to deploy a model to a production environment. They use MLflow Registry to track the model's performance and to compare it to other models in production.

Reviewer: ML Engineer and MLOps Engineer are the same persona

- `MLflow Models <models>`_: A model packaging format and suite of tools that let you easily deploy a trained model (from any ML library) for batch or real-time inference on platforms such as Docker, Apache Spark, Databricks, Azure ML and AWS SageMaker. This image shows MLflow Tracking UI's view of a run's detail and its MLflow model. You can see that the artifacts in the **model** directory include the model weights, files describing the model's environment and dependencies, and sample code for loading the model and inferencing with it:

.. figure:: _static/images/what-is-mlflow/model-details.png
    :width: 100%
    :alt: Screenshot of the MLflow Tracking run details page, showing the MLflow Model artifacts.

- `MLflow Model Registry <registry>`_: A centralized model store, set of APIs, and UI focused on the approval, quality assurance, and deployment of an MLflow Model.

- `MLflow Projects <projects>`_: A standard format for packaging reusable data science code that can be run with different parameters to train models, visualize data, or perform any other data science task.

> - `MLflow Recipes <recipes>`_: Predefined templates for developing high-quality models for a variety of commont tasks, including classification and regression.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `MLflow Recipes <recipes>`_: Predefined templates for developing high-quality models for a variety of common tasks, including classification and regression.
```

Author: lol

Author: Resolved in 107d13400
